reference/dm: refine dmctl commands doc in DM (#1556)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/tools/data-migration/manage-tasks.md

## Manage the data replication task

This section describes how to use the task management commands to execute corresponding operations.

### Create the data replication task

> You can use the task management command to create the data replication task. Data Migration [prechecks the corresponding privileges and configuration automatically](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/precheck.md) while starting the data replication.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the `start-task` command to create the data replication task. Data Migration [prechecks the corresponding privileges and configuration automatically](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/precheck.md) while starting the data replication.
```

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
help start-task

> start a task as defined in the config file

Author: Just confirm - are you suggesting removing this?

> start a task as defined in the config file

Reviewer: we split the code block into two sections, one for input (`help start-task`) and another for output (`start a task ...`).

the same for other commands.

Reviewer 2: @dcalvin Please address this comment. Thanks!

> start a task as defined in the config file

Reviewer 2: @dcalvin Split it into two code blocks. The 1st one should have a code snippet and the 2nd one doesn't need it.

#### Flags description

- `-w`: (Optional) Specifies the group of DM-workers where the subtasks of the replication task (that you want to query) run.
- `task-name`: (Optional) Specifies the task name. If it is not set, the results of all data replication tasks are returned.

#### Returned results

> For detailed description of query parameters and a complete list of returned result, refer to [Query status](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/query-status.md#query-result)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For detailed description of query parameters and a complete list of returned result, refer to [Query status](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/query-status.md#query-result).
```

```
resume a specified paused task

Usage:
 dmctl resume-task [-w worker ...] <task-name> [flags]

Flags:
 -h, --help   help for resume-task

Global Flags:
 -w, --worker strings   DM-worker ID
```

#### Command usage example

```bash
resume-task [-w "127.0.0.1:8262"] task-name
```

#### Flags description

- `-w`: (Optional) Specifies the group of DM-workers where the subtasks of the replication task (that you want to restart) run. If it is set, only subtasks on the specified DM-workers are restarted.
- `task-name`: (Required) Specifies the task name.

#### Returned results

```bash
resume-task test
```

```bash
{
     "op": "Resume",
     "result": true,
     "msg": "",
     "workers": [
         {
             "meta": {
                 "result": true,
                 "worker": "172.16.30.15:8262",
                 "msg": ""
             },
             "op": "Resume",
             "logID": "3"
         },
         {
             "meta": {
                 "result": true,
                 "worker": "172.16.30.16:8262",
                 "msg": ""
             },
             "op": "Resume",
             "logID": "3"
         }
     ]
}
```

### Stop the data replication task

> You can use the `stop-task` command to stop a data replication task. For differences between `stop-task` and `pause-task`, refer to [Pause the data replication task](#pause-the-data-replication-task)

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the `stop-task` command to stop a data replication task. For differences between `stop-task` and `pause-task`, refer to [Pause the data replication task](#pause-the-data-replication-task).
```

> You can use the `stop-task` command to stop a data replication task. For differences between `stop-task` and `pause-task`, refer to [Pause the data replication task](#pause-the-data-replication-task).

Author: I actually prefer "a" in such a context. But as you mentioned, we have used a lot of "the", so let's keep them consistent.

> You can use the `stop-task` command to stop a data replication task. For differences between `stop-task` and `pause-task`, refer to [Pause the data replication task](#pause-the-data-replication-task).

Reviewer 2: OK.

```

#### Flags description

- `-w`: (Optional) Specifies the group of DM-workers where the subtasks of the replication task (that you want to stop) run. If it is set, only subtasks on the specified DM-workers are stopped.
- `task-name`: (Required) Specifies the task name.

#### Returned results

```bash
stop-task test
```

```
{
     "op": "Stop",
     "result": true,
     "msg": "",
     "workers": [
         {
             "meta": {
                 "result": true,
                 "worker": "172.16.30.15:8262",
                 "msg": ""
             },
             "op": "Stop",
             "logID": "4"
         },
         {
             "meta": {
                 "result": true,
                 "worker": "172.16.30.16:8262",
                 "msg": ""
             },
             "op": "Stop",
             "logID": "4"
         }
     ]
}
```

### Update the data replication task

You can use the `update-task` command to update the data replication task. The following items support online update, while all other items do not support online update.

- table route rules
- black white list
- binlog filter rules
- column mapping rules

> **Note:**
>

> > If you can make sure that the relay log required by the replication task will not be removed when the task is stopped, it is recommended that you use [Update items that do not support online update](#Update-items-that-do-not-support-online-update) to update task configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If you can make sure that the relay log required by the replication task will not be removed when the task is stopped, it is recommended that you use [Update items that do not support online update](#update-items-that-do-not-support-online-update) to update task configurations.
```

#### Command usage help

```bash
help update-task
```

```
update a task's config for routes, filters, column-mappings, black-white-list

Usage:

>   dmctl update-task [-w worker ...] <config-file> [flags]

Reviewer 2: @dcalvin Please confirm this with @csuzhangxc.

- `config-file`: (Required) Specifies the file path of `task.yaml`.

#### Returned results

```bash
update-task task_all_black.yaml
```

```bash
{
​    "result": true,
​    "msg": "",
​    "workers": [
​        {
​            "result": true,
​            "worker": "172.16.30.15:8262",
​            "msg": ""
​        },
​        {
​            "result": true,
​            "worker": "172.16.30.16:8262",
​            "msg": ""
​        }
​    ]
}
```

## Manage DDL locks

Currently, DDL lock related commands mainly include `show-ddl-locks`, `unlock-ddl-lock`, `break-ddl-lock`, etc. For more information on their functions, usages, and applicable scenarios, refer to [Handle Sharding DDL Locks Manually](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/features/manually-handling-sharding-ddl-locks.md).

## Other task and cluster management commands

Besides the above commonly used task management commands, there are also other commands in DM that are used for managing data replication tasks and DM clusters.

### Check task configuration file

> You can use the `check-task` command to check whether a specified configuration file (`task.yaml` of the replication task is valid, or whether the configuration of upstream/downstream database, permission setting, and schema meet the replication requirements. For more details, refer to [Precheck the upstream MySQL instance configuration](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/precheck.md).

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the `check-task` command to check whether a specified configuration file (`task.yaml`) of the replication task is valid, or whether the configuration of upstream/downstream database, permission setting, and schema meet the replication requirements. For more details, refer to [Precheck the upstream MySQL instance configuration](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/precheck.md).
```

 `check-task` is also performed before `start-task`.

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
help check-task
```

```
check the config file of the task

Usage:
 dmctl check-task <config-file> [flags]

Flags:
 -h, --help   help for check-task

Global Flags:
 -w, --worker strings   DM-worker ID
```

#### Command usage example

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
check-task task.yaml
```

#### Flags description

+ `config-file`:(Required) Specifies the path of the `task.yaml` file

#### Returned results

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
check-task task-test.yaml
```

```
{
    "result": true,
    "msg": "check pass!!!"
}
```

> ### Pause the relay unit

Author: ```suggestion
### Pause a relay unit
```

Relay units automatically run after the DM-worker thread starts. You can use the `pause-relay` command to pause the running relay units.

> When you want to switch the DM-worker to connect to an upstream MySQL via a virtual IP, you need to use `pause-relay` to make corresponding changes on DM. For instructions on how to make the change, refer to [Upstream Master-Slave Switch in Virtual IP Environment](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/usage-scenarios/master-slave-switch.md#虚拟-IP-环境下的上游主从切换).

Author: ```suggestion
When you want to switch the DM-worker to connect to an upstream MySQL via a virtual IP, you need to use `pause-relay` to make corresponding changes on DM. For instructions on how to make the changes, refer to [Upstream Master-Slave Switch in Virtual IP Environment](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/usage-scenarios/master-slave-switch.md#虚拟-IP-环境下的上游主从切换).
```

> When you want to switch the DM-worker to connect to an upstream MySQL via a virtual IP, you need to use `pause-relay` to make corresponding changes on DM. For instructions on how to make the changes, refer to [Upstream Master-Slave Switch in Virtual IP Environment](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/usage-scenarios/master-slave-switch.md#虚拟-IP-环境下的上游主从切换).

Reviewer 3: Sure.

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
help pause-relay
```

```
pause DM-worker's relay unit

Usage:
  dmctl pause-relay <-w worker ...> [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help   help for pause-relay

Global Flags:
  -w, --worker strings   DM-worker ID
```

#### Command usage example

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
pause-relay -w "127.0.0.1:8262"
```

#### Flags description

- `-w`: (Required) Specifies the DM-worker for which to pause the relay unit

#### Returned results

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
pause-relay -w "172.16.30.15:8262"
```

```
{
    "op": "InvalidRelayOp",
    "result": true,
    "msg": "",
    "workers": [
        {
            "op": "PauseRelay",
            "result": true,
            "worker": "172.16.30.15:8262",
            "msg": ""
        }
    ]
}
```

> ### Resume relay unit

Author: ```suggestion
### Resume a relay unit
```

Global Flags:
  -w, --worker strings   DM-worker ID
```

#### Command usage example

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
purge-relay -w "127.0.0.1:8262" --filename "mysql-bin.000003"
```

#### Flags description

- `-w`: (Required) Specifies the DM-worker for which to perform a clean operation
- `--filename`: (Required) Specifies the name of the terminal file before which to purge relay log files. For example, if the value is `mysql-bin.000100`, the clean operation stops at `mysql-bin.000099`.
- `--sub-dir`: (Optional) Specifies the relay log sub-directory corresponding to `--filename`. If not specified, the latest one is used.

#### Returned results

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
purge-relay -w "127.0.0.1:8262" --filename "mysql-bin.000003"
```

```
[warn] no --sub-dir specified for --filename; the latest one will be used
{
    "result": true,
    "msg": "",
    "workers": [
        {
            "result": true,
            "worker": "127.0.0.1:8262",
            "msg": ""
        }
    ]
}
```

### Preset skip operation

> `sql-skip` allows you to preset a skip operation to be executed when the position or the SQL statement of the binlog event matches with the specified `binlog-pos` or `sql-pattern`. For descriptions of related parameters and results, refer to [`sql-skip`](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/skip-replace-sqls.md#sql-skip).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use `sql-skip` to preset a skip operation to be executed when the position or the SQL statement of the binlog event matches the specified `binlog-pos` or `sql-pattern`. For descriptions of related parameters and results, refer to [`sql-skip`](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/skip-replace-sqls.md#sql-skip).
```

### Preset replace operation

> `sql-replace` allows you to preset a replace operation to be executed when the position or the SQL statement of the binlog event matches with the specified binlog-pos or sql-pattern.. For descriptions of related parameters and results, refer to [`sql-replace`](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/skip-replace-sqls.md#sql-replace).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use `sql-replace` to preset a replace operation to be executed when the position or the SQL statement of the binlog event matches the specified binlog-pos or sql-pattern. For descriptions of related parameters and results, refer to [`sql-replace`](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/skip-replace-sqls.md#sql-replace).
```

​        }
​    ]
}
```

## Manage DDL locks

Currently, DDL lock related commands mainly include `show-ddl-locks`, `unlock-ddl-lock`, `break-ddl-lock`, etc. For more information on their functions, usages, and applicable scenarios, refer to [Handle Sharding DDL Locks Manually](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/features/manually-handling-sharding-ddl-locks.md).

## Other task and cluster management commands

In addition to the common task management commands above, DM also provides some other commands to manage data replication tasks and DM clusters.

### Check the task configuration file

You can use the `check-task` command to check whether a specified configuration file (`task.yaml`) of the replication task is valid, or whether the configuration of upstream/downstream database, permission setting, and schema meet the replication requirements. For more details, refer to [Precheck the upstream MySQL instance configuration](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/precheck.md).

When you use `start-task` to start a replication task, DM also executes all checks done by `check-task`.

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
help check-task
```

```
check the config file of the task

Usage:

>  dmctl check-task <config-file> [flags]

Reviewer: you can change  all `config_file` to `config-file` in this file.

Reviewer 2: @csuzhangxc Currently, both `config_file` and `config-file` exist in [the Chinese version](https://pingcap.com/docs-cn/v3.0/reference/tools/data-migration/manage-tasks/). Do we need to modify all `config_file` to `config-file` to keep them consistent? Otherwise, I'm afraid users might feel confused.

Reviewer: > Do we need to modify all config_file to config-file to keep them consistent?

YES

Reviewer 2: @csuzhangxc Got it. @TomShawn Please help modify all `config_file` in [the Chinese version](https://pingcap.com/docs-cn/v3.0/reference/tools/data-migration/manage-tasks/) to `config-file` (for three versions). Thanks!

- `-w`: (Required) Specifies the DM-worker for which to perform a clean operation
- `--filename`: (Required) Specifies the name of the terminal file before which to purge relay log files. For example, if the value is `mysql-bin.000100`, the clean operation stops at `mysql-bin.000099`.
- `--sub-dir`: (Optional) Specifies the relay log sub-directory corresponding to `--filename`. If not specified, the latest one is used.

#### Returned results

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
purge-relay -w "127.0.0.1:8262" --filename "mysql-bin.000003"
```

```
[warn] no --sub-dir specified for --filename; the latest one will be used
{
    "result": true,
    "msg": "",
    "workers": [
        {
            "result": true,
            "worker": "127.0.0.1:8262",
            "msg": ""
        }
    ]
}
```

### Preset skip operation

You can use `sql-skip` to preset a skip operation to be executed when the position or the SQL statement of the binlog event matches with the specified `binlog-pos` or `sql-pattern`. For descriptions of related parameters and results, refer to [`sql-skip`](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/skip-replace-sqls.md#sql-skip).

### Preset replace operation

> You can use `sql-replace` to preset a replace operation to be executed when the position or the SQL statement of the binlog event matches with the specified binlog-pos or sql-pattern.. For descriptions of related parameters and results, refer to [`sql-replace`](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/skip-replace-sqls.md#sql-replace).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `sql-replace` to preset a replace operation to be executed when the position or the SQL statement of the binlog event matches with the specified `binlog-pos` or `sql-pattern`. For descriptions of related parameters and results, refer to [`sql-replace`](/dev/reference/tools/data-migration/skip-replace-sqls.md#sql-replace).
```
